Watsonx is IBM's commercial generative AI and scientific data platform
based on cloud. It offers a studio, data store, and governance toolkit.
It supports multiple large language models (LLMs) along with IBM's own
Granite.\[2\]\[1\]

The platform is described as an AI tool tailed to companies and a one
which can be customized for customers' needs and trained on their
confidential data, as client data is said to be not collected by IBM for
further training of their models. It is also capable of fine-tuning, an
approach which makes training pre-trained models on the newly introduced
data possible.\[3\]

History Watsonx was revealed on May 9, 2023, at the annual Think
conference of IBM as a platform that includes multiple services. Just
like Watson AI computer with the similar name, Watsonx was named after
Thomas J. Watson, IBM's founder and first CEO.\[1\]

On February 13, 2024, Anaconda partnered with IBM to embed its
open-source Python packages into Watsonx.\[4\]

Watsonx is currently used at ESPN's Fantasy Football App for managing
players' performance.\[5\] It is also used by Italian telecommunications
company Wind Tre.\[6\] Watsonx was used to generate editorial content
around nominees during the 66th Annual Grammy Awards.\[7\]

Services watsonx.ai Watsonx.ai is a platform that allows AI developers
to leverage a wide range of LLMs under IBM's own Granite series and
others such as Facebook's LLaMA-2, free and open-source model Mistral
and many others present in Hugging Face community for a diverse set of
AI development tasks.\[8\]\[9\] These models come pre-trained and are
designed to excel in various Natural Language Processing (NLP)
applications, encompassing question answering, content generation,
summarization, text classification, and data extraction. The platform
allows fine-tuning with its Tuning Studio, allowing those models to
learn the data provided by customers.\[10\]

watsonx.data Watsonx.data is a platform designed to assist clients in
addressing issues related to data volume, complexity, cost, and
governance as they scale their AI workloads. This platform facilitates
seamless data access, whether the data is stored in the cloud or
on-premises, through a single entry point, offering simple use for users
who may not possess technical expertise. This approach prioritizes data
security and compliance.\[10\]

watsonx.governance Watsonx.governance is a platform that utilizes IBM's
AI governance capabilities to support organizations in implementing
comprehensive AI lifecycle governance. This helps them manage risks and
maintain compliance with evolving AI and industry regulations. The
platform allows organizations to reduce AI bias by overseeing their AI
initiatives, leveraging software automation to enhance risk mitigation,
regulatory compliance, and ethical considerations.\[10\]